new resource `azurerm_synapse_sql_pool` (#8095)
terraform-providers/terraform-provider-azurerm: website/docs/r/synapse_sql_pool.html.markdown

---
subcategory: "Synapse"
layout: "azurerm"
page_title: "Azure Resource Manager: azurerm_synapse_sql_pool"
description: |-

>   Manages a synapse Sql Pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Manages a Synapse Sql Pool.
```

---

# azurerm_synapse_sql_pool

> Manages a synapse Sql Pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manages a Synapse Sql Pool.
```

## Example Usage

```hcl
resource "azurerm_resource_group" "example" {
  name     = "example-resources"
  location = "West Europe"
}

resource "azurerm_storage_account" "example" {
  name                     = "examplestorageacc"
  resource_group_name      = azurerm_resource_group.example.name
  location                 = azurerm_resource_group.example.location
  account_tier             = "Standard"
  account_replication_type = "LRS"
  account_kind             = "StorageV2"

>   is_hns_enabled           = "true"

Reviewer 2: this is a bool

```suggestion
  is_hns_enabled           = true
```

}

resource "azurerm_storage_data_lake_gen2_filesystem" "example" {
  name               = "example"
  storage_account_id = azurerm_storage_account.example.id
}

resource "azurerm_synapse_workspace" "example" {
  name                                 = "example"
  resource_group_name                  = azurerm_resource_group.example.name
  location                             = azurerm_resource_group.example.location
  storage_data_lake_gen2_filesystem_id = azurerm_storage_data_lake_gen2_filesystem.example.id
  sql_administrator_login              = "sqladminuser"
  sql_administrator_login_password     = "H@Sh1CoR3!"
}

resource "azurerm_synapse_sql_pool" "example" {
  name                 = "examplesqlpool"

>   synapse_workspace_id = azurerm_synapse_workspace.example.id

Reviewer 2: what about the other fields here?

}
```

## Arguments Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `name` - (Required) The name which should be used for this Synapse Sql Pool. Changing this forces a new synapse SqlPool to be created.

> * `synapse_workspace_id` - (Required) The resource ID of Synapse Workspace. Changing this forces a new synapse SqlPool to be created.

Reviewer 2: we shouldn't be using the term "Resource ID" because it's ambiguous between Terraform and Azure - and they can diverge

```suggestion
* `synapse_workspace_id` - (Required) The ID of Synapse Workspace within which this Sql Pool should be created. Changing this forces a new Synapse Sql Pool to be created.
```

> * `sku_name` - (Optional) Specifies the SKU Name for this Synapse Sql Pool. Possible values are `DW100c`, `DW200c`, `DW300c`, `DW400c`, `DW500c`, `DW1000c`, `DW1500c`, `DW2000c`, `DW2500c`, `DW3000c`, `DW5000c`, `DW6000c`, `DW7500c`, `DW10000c`, `DW15000c` or `DW30000c`. Defaults to `DW1000c`.

Reviewer 2: (as above) we shouldn't default a SKU here - particularly to one which costs $18/hour / ~$13,000 a month

* `create_mode` - (Optional) Specifies how to create the Sql Pool. Valid values are: `Default`, `Recovery` or `PointInTimeRestore`. Must be `Default` to create a new database. Defaults to `Default`.

> * `collation` - (Optional) The name of the collation. Applies only if `create_mode` is `Default`.  Azure default is `SQL_LATIN1_GENERAL_CP1_CI_AS`. Changing this forces a new resource to be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `collation` - (Optional) The name of the collation to use with this pool. Applies only if `create_mode` is `Default`.  Azure default is `SQL_LATIN1_GENERAL_CP1_CI_AS`. Changing this forces a new resource to be created.
```

> * `collation` - (Optional) The name of the collation to use with this pool. Applies only if `create_mode` is `Default`.  Azure default is `SQL_LATIN1_GENERAL_CP1_CI_AS`. Changing this forces a new resource to be created.

Reviewer 2: we should default this within Terraform too:

```suggestion
* `collation` - (Optional) The name of the collation to use with this pool, only applicable when `create_mode` is set to `Default`. Defaults to `SQL_LATIN1_GENERAL_CP1_CI_AS`. Changing this forces a new resource to be created.
```

> * `source_database_id` - (Optional) The ID of the source_database which is to recovery or back up.

Reviewer: Could we clarify this description?
